# Project Information (Project name, author, project organization, project manager, and date)
The student provides all of the components required as outlined.

# Project Overview and Project Objectives (C2.3)
The student comprehensively states the business case/problem to be solved, describes the project background, including contributing factors and potential impact regarding field or discipline, clearly presents the project objectives used to measure project success, and examines the known challenges and benefits or opportunities resulting from implementation. The project overview is well-written, void of mistakes, and makes the purpose, relevance, and project goals clear.

# Project Scope
The student presents a clear concise statement that explains the scope of the project and the requirements for completion. The student lists the work breakdown (all tasks and subtasks mapped to project objectives) required to satisfy the project objectives, as well as identifies all teams (stakeholders including titles, affiliations, and roles) and resources that may be required. Information and justifications are insightful and appropriate.

# Project Completion
The student comprehensively describes what measures will be used to calculate project success and how they were made; information and justifications are accurate and appropriate. The student examines account completion criteria, assumptions and constraints (including their reasons, sources, and impact on implementation), as well as explicit goals that must be attained, including their relative importance and how to assess them. Extensive evidence, details and examples are provided.

# Project Controls
The student comprehensively defines any project risks and preventative steps regarding alternative solutions to reduce the impact of the risks; information and justifications are accurate and appropriate. The student examines management changes/issues that are anticipated, planned, or unexpected, and describes how end users are involved in software development. Extensive evidence, details and examples are provided.

# Project Schedule
The student presents a clear, organized project schedule implementing all tasks and subtasks as defined, providing prioritization, contingencies, and accounting for availability of necessary resources. The schedule includes a timeline with dates for the completion of key components of the project.

# Project Cost Estimate (or Alternative Criteria)
The student presents a clear, organized spreadsheet that contains all necessary cost estimates and detailed calculations, prioritizing expenses to best support the scope of the project. OR If the cost calculations do not apply, work with the instructor to create a method to quantify the effort and resources used, as appropriate to your individual project.

# Project Issue Log
The log issue tracking mechanism is clearly designed and a comprehensive list of preventive steps/issues is presented; identifying potential project issues, explaining the potential impact scope, schedule, and/or cost, as well as including an action plan for a resolution is included.

# Requirements Analysis: Use Cases
The student comprehensively presents all of the use cases, listing the sequence of actions in each case, and uses diagrams or images to explain each. Information and justifications are accurate and appropriate.

# Requirements Analysis: System Design
The student provides a detailed, in-depth top-down design of the system, with a diagram similar to a flowchart. The student explains each component and the reason for its inclusion.

# Requirements Analysis: Technical Requirements
The student comprehensively explains all of the technical requirements for the system (to include concrete examples), as well as the software and/or hardware that is necessary to meet the requirements; information and justifications are accurate and appropriate.

# Requirements Analysis: System Logical Model
The student provides a detailed, in-depth diagram of the logical architecture of the system. The diagram accurately reflects the functional requirements of the application, and illustrates the flow of information through the system.

# Requirements Analysis: Reports
The student comprehensively explains all of the reports to be generated by the system, detailing the information they contain, including complete templates; information and justifications are accurate and appropriate. OR If not applicable, provide additional documentation as indicated by the instructor.

# Requirements Analysis: Screen Definitions and Layouts (or Alternative Criteria)
The student comprehensively describes all of the screen definitions and layouts to be used by the system, detailing the features and functions and including accurate mock designs (layout diagrams) for each user interface screen in the application; information and justifications are accurate and appropriate. OR If not applicable, comprehensively define the components of the project as indicated by the instructor.

# Requirements Analysis: Security (or Alternative Criteria)
The security matrix is clearly designed and presents a comprehensive list of security issues that the system must address using detailed, concrete scenarios for each issue (to include the nature and magnitude of the issue). OR If there are no security issues for the system, provide a detailed explanation of why.
