**Topic 6 -- Benchmark - Milestone 4: Results Analysis or Testing
Components**

Steven Merkling

College of Engineering and Technology, Grand Canyon University

CST-590-O500: Computer Science Capstone Project

Dr. Aiman Darwiche

September 24, 2025

# **System Entities**

The student provides all of the components required as outlined.

**Functional Requirements**

The student accurately maps each requirement to the module(s) or
function(s) that satisfies it. Comprehensive diagrams and descriptions
are provided (as applicable). All functional requirements are satisfied
and there are no major or minor issues that need to be resolved.

**Source Code Listing**

The student accurately presents source code that is exceptionally
well-organized, efficient, and very easy to follow, with full comments
(to include brief descriptions of all classes and files).

**Implementation Plan**

The student presents their source code to a fellow programmer for review
(to identify bugs and simple coding errors). Feedback is implemented and
changes are made as appropriate.

**Application Functionality and Execution**

The student comprehensively describes all of the software that may need
to be integrated (to include libraries, databases, and other programs),
the software deployed as an operational system, as well as the strategy,
potential impacts, and activities that will be addressed in the
implementation; information and justifications are accurate and
appropriate. The student outlines activities necessary to ensure that
the system is available for use by its end users as originally planned.
Extensive evidence, details, and examples are provided.

**User Guide (Cover Page, Title Page and Copyright Page, Preface, Table
of Contents, General Information, System Summary, Getting Started, Using
the System, Troubleshooting, FAQ, Help and Contact Details, Glossary)**

The student presents a clear, concise, jargon-free, and organized user
guide that comprehensively explains (with illustrations, screenshots,
tables, visuals, images, diagrams etc.) how to use the application in a
way that a nontechnical person can understand. The guide is searchable,
presents procedural information (step-by-step instructions) and
conceptual information on on how to install and use the product,
considers the needs of disabled users (i.e., low vision, color-blind),
provides safety information, meets all legal requirements, and has a
consistent format and style. All applicable sections are completed, with
extensive details and examples.

**References**

Anthropic. (2025). Conversation with Claude \[AI conversation\]. Claude.
https://claude.ai

Gemini LLM (n.d.). Gemini - chat to supercharge your ideas. (n.d.).
Gemini.google.com. https://gemini.google.com

Google. (2024). Google Colaboratory. https://colab.research.google.com/.

Microsoft Corporation. (2024). Microsoft Copilot \[Software as a
Service\]. https://copilot.microsoft.com
