**Topic 3 -- Benchmark - Milestone 2: Final Draft**

Steven Merkling

College of Engineering and Technology, Grand Canyon University

CST-590-O500: Computer Science Capstone Project

Dr. Aiman Darwiche

September 3, 2025

# **Project Information (Stakeholders\' names, project name and document contributors)**

The student provides all of the components required as outlined.

Stakeholders\' names

project name

document contributors

# **Design Planning Summary (C3.2) (C3.2)**

The student provides a clear, organized and focused design planning
summary. The student comprehensively summarizes the specific development
project, the situation that led to the need, the issue that the
development project is going to solve, as well as the proposed solution
and the rationale for the solution. The summary is well-written, void of
mistakes, and makes the purpose, relevance, and reasoning for the design
planning clear.

# **Overview of Design Concepts**

The student comprehensively presents a high-level design of the proposed
solution or business case with supporting evidence mock-up screenshots
for the proposed user interface, screens, pseudo-code, and flowcharts
that show the logic for the program and any related process flow), as
well as all components, features, and tasks the finished project is
expected to perform. The overview is well-written, void of mistakes, and
makes the purpose, relevance, and concept goals clear.

# **Detailed Solution Architecture: Overview**

The student comprehensively presents how the proposed design fits into
the overall project structure. The overview is well-written, void of
mistakes, and makes the purpose, relevance, and design goals clear.

# **Detailed Solution Architecture: Object and Data Elements**

The student comprehensively describes all objects with UML diagrams,
detailing the purpose and characteristics of all data elements, data
sources, and collection methods; information and justifications are
accurate and appropriate. The diagrams accurately reflect the systems
and do not have any major or minor issues that need to be addressed.

# **Detailed Solution Architecture: System Diagrams (or Alternative Criteria)**

The student provides detailed, in-depth diagrams as needed, relevant to
the particular system (entity-relationship diagrams, workflow diagrams,
database schema, detailed flowcharts, algorithms, etc.). The diagrams
accurately reflect the system and do not have any major or minor issues
that need to be addressed. OR If not applicable, comprehensively define
the components of the project as indicated by the instructor.

# **Detailed Solution Architecture: Collaboration Diagrams and/or Sequence Diagrams**

The student provides detailed, in-depth diagrams showing the workflows
of components/packages/classes inside the architecture. The diagrams
accurately reflect the processes and do not have any major or minor
issues that need to be addressed.

# **Detailed Solution Architecture: Algorithms**

The student comprehensively and accurately describes all of the project
algorithms; information and justifications are accurate and appropriate.
The student includes all of the detailed performance analyses and
metrics and does not have any major or minor issues that need to be
addressed.

# **Detailed Solution Architecture: Detailed Specifications**

The student comprehensively presents detailed specifications for all
screens, interfaces and integration points, processes, conversions, and
reports. The information and justifications are accurate and
appropriate. Extensive evidence, details, and examples are provided.

# **Detailed Solution Architecture: Requirements**

The student comprehensively describes any packages, software libraries,
hardware, and software technologies, and their use; information and
justifications are accurate and appropriate. Extensive evidence,
details, and examples are provided.

# **Detailed Solution Architecture: Security (or Alternative Criteria)**

The student comprehensively describes all of the approaches and
resources required to assure system security; information and
justifications are accurate and appropriate. OR If there are no security
issues for the system, the student comprehensively presents a detailed
explanation of why, information and justifications are accurate and
appropriate.

**References**

Anthropic. (2025). Conversation with Claude \[AI conversation\]. Claude.
https://claude.ai

Gemini LLM (n.d.). Gemini - chat to supercharge your ideas. (n.d.).
Gemini.google.com. https://gemini.google.com

Google. (2024). Google Colaboratory. https://colab.research.google.com/.

Microsoft Corporation. (2024). Microsoft Copilot \[Software as a
Service\]. https://copilot.microsoft.com
