**Topic 6 -- Benchmark - Milestone 4: Results Analysis or Testing
Components**

Steven Merkling

College of Engineering and Technology, Grand Canyon University

CST-590-O500: Computer Science Capstone Project

Dr. Aiman Darwiche

September 24, 2025

# **Project Information (Project name, author, project organization, project manager, and date)**

The student provides all of the components required as outlined.

# **Components Testing - Module Test Cases (C4.3) (C4.3)**

The student develops testing processes (as needed) to verify the
functionality of each module test case. The student provides detailed,
in-depth documentation of the testing results, emphasizing execution of
correctness and performance metrics. All components are tested per the
assignment criteria and there are no major or minor issues that need to
be resolved. OR If not applicable, comprehensively defines all of the
components of the project regarding the documentation, assessment,
expectations for mathematical proofs, analysis of algorithm correctness
and performance, analytics models, and/or other mathematical treatment
as indicated by the instructor.

**Requirements Testing**

The student successfully tests the application against the requirements
gathered in the requirements phase of development. The student provides
detailed, in-depth documentation accurately mapping all requirements to
test scenarios. All requirements are tested per the assignment criteria
and there are no major or minor issues that need to be resolved. OR If
not applicable, comprehensively defines all of the components of the
alternative project criteria as indicated by the instructor.

# **System Testing**

The student successfully verifies that all components of the functional
business requirements, business processes, data flows, and other system
criteria are met. The student provides detailed, in-depth documentation
of testing for specific end-to-end relevant processes. All components of
the functional business requirements are tested per the assignment
criteria and there are no major or minor issues that need to be
resolved. OR If not applicable, comprehensively defines all of the
components of the alternative project criteria as indicated by the
instructor.

**User Guide (Cover Page, Title Page and Copyright Page, Preface, Table
of Contents, General Information, System Summary, Getting Started, Using
the System, Troubleshooting, FAQ, Help and Contact Details, Glossary)**

The student

**System Administration Guide (Cover Page, Title Page and Copyright
Page, Legal Notice, Table of Contents, System Overview, System
Configuration, System Maintenance, Security Related Processes,
Appendices, Table of Figures)**

The student

**References**

Anthropic. (2025). Conversation with Claude \[AI conversation\]. Claude.
https://claude.ai

Gemini LLM (n.d.). Gemini - chat to supercharge your ideas. (n.d.).
Gemini.google.com. https://gemini.google.com

Google. (2024). Google Colaboratory. https://colab.research.google.com/.

Microsoft Corporation. (2024). Microsoft Copilot \[Software as a
Service\]. https://copilot.microsoft.com
